---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: <pra@aps.org>
Date: Mon, Feb 10, 2020 at 8:13 AM
Subject: Your_manuscript AN11713 Polloreno
To: <anthony.polloreno@gmail.com>



Re: AN11713
    Robustly decorrelating errors with mixed quantum gates
    by Anthony M. Polloreno and Kevin C. Young

Dear Anthony Polloreno,

The above manuscript has been reviewed by two of our referees.
Comments from the reports appear below.

These comments suggest that considerable revision of your paper may be
in order.  If you resubmit your manuscript, please include a summary of
the changes made and a brief response to all recommendations or
criticisms.

Yours sincerely,

Thomas Pattard
Managing Editor
Physical Review A
Email: pra@aps.org
https://journals.aps.org/pra/

In celebration of the 50th Anniversary of Physical Review A, B, C,
and D, APS is offering 50% off open access article publication
charges (APCs) in all hybrid journals for papers submitted during the
2020 calendar year. Additionally, Physical Review Research will
continue to waive APCs through June 30, 2020. For details about APC
pricing, see https://journals.aps.org/authors/apcs.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the First Referee -- AN11713/Polloreno
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In this paper, the authors propose novel techniques to solve the
problem of coherent errors in quantum computation. Their techniques,
which are obtained by extending previous approaches, are based on
various optimization methods. This topic is timely and the methods
proposed here will be useful in the field of quantum information
science. So, I recommend its publication in PRA.

Here I have a comment for readability. The presentation in Secs. IIIB3
and IVB1 with Fig. 6 may be difficult to understand, especially for
readers not familiar with sparse modeling. I recommend the improvement
of the parts.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the Second Referee -- AN11713/Polloreno
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The manuscript by Pollareno et al. presents a convex algorithm for
compiling gates in quantum algorithms in a random fashion. Instead of
applying a fixed gate pulse (which can have both coherent and
incoherent errors), the authors pick the gates from ensembles with
intentionally injected control errors. This procedure is meant to
randomize coherent errors and mitigate any amplification of such
errors in quantum circuits. The authors then performed a simple
single-qubit RB experiment using their qubit device, where they show
that the coherent errors of individual (intentionally misaligned)
pulses are suppressed if the SQ gates are chosen from an ensemble of
such misaligned gates. Some numerics are also done for two-qubit gates
arguing for similar, beneficial outcomes.

Randomized compiling is technique known to the QC community for quite
some time now and therefore there is nothing particularly novel about
the technique itself. What appears to be the highlight of the paper is
the convex algorithm that the authors used to choose random gates and
the experimental demonstration. While these are good steps toward a
nice direction, I feel the demonstrations are not sufficiently
convincing, particularly in regard to the experimental part (which the
authors themselves acknowledge as being "contrived"). Here are my main
concerns:

1. For the experiment, it is completely trivial to me that randomly
picking four faulty unitaries outperforms choosing just one of them.
Here the only coherent errors the authors introduced are under and
over-rotations to the Rabi angle. These over- and under-rotations
would naturally build up and amplify if left by themselves. However,
if chosen at random, they would cancel each other out and give better
fidelity at the end of the sequence. Correct? I fail to see any
surprise here and how the authors' lengthy algorithm even plays a role
for this demonstration.

2. It seems to me that authors can very easily go a step further: A SQ
unitary is parametrized by three angles: Rabi angle, off-diagonal and
diagonal phases. Why not introduce coherent errors to all three phases
(or at least two, such as the Rabi angle and the off-diagonal phase)?
To me this will be much less trivial.

3. The whole point of RB is meant to randomize coherent errors and
turn them into a depolarization channel. It is bizarre to me that the
authors chose to demonstrate their randomized compiling through an
experiment that is in itself random. Wouldn't a structured algorithm
(QAOA or anything else that is not random) be a far better candidate
for demonstrating the efficacy of randomized compiling?

4. Why is the two-qubit experiment not done? It shouldn't be that
difficult to do, if the authors believe that their method works
(according to numerics). SQ demonstrations just too trivial to show
anything given their simplicity.

5. I'm still confused about how the algorithm works. Suppose we have
gates that have systematic errors on some unitary angles. These errors
are, of course, not known to me. Now, what do I do exactly? I start
introducing a bunch of (additional and known) random errors to the
gates, then compile the quantum circuit by picking gates from this
random ensemble I constructed? If so, what the authors seemed to have
showed is that the error of the randomly compiled circuit beats that
of the circuit made from any one of the faulty gates in the ensemble
(which I constructed myself), NOT the coherent error in the original
gate. This seemed rather useless, as the endgame is to suppress the
original, unknown coherent error, NOT the artificial errors I
introduced. Am I missing something?

All in all, I cannot recommend the publication of the manuscript until
the authors clarify my concerns above.